DOCSP-13859: UpdateOne usage example (#5)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/usage-examples/updateOne.txt

=================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

You can update a document in a collection by using the ``UpdateOne()``
method. 

The following example passes a query filter and an update parameter to the
``UpdateOne()`` method, which matches a document in the ``restaurants`` collection
by the value of its ``_id`` field and creates a new field in that document called
``avg_rating`` with a value of *4.4*:

.. include:: /includes/run-example-tip.rst

.. literalinclude:: /code-snippets/updateOne.go
   :start-after: begin updateone
   :end-before: end updateone
   :emphasize-lines: 6
   :language: go
   :dedent:

> Click here <TODO: github link to file> to see a fully runnable example.

Reviewer: Should this `TODO` be resolved before merging?

Author: No, we will revise the links before publishing!

Expected Result
---------------

After you run the code example, the document will include the
``avg_rating`` field with the specified value:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   // result truncated
   { 
      "_id" : ObjectId("5eb3d668b31de5d588f42a7a"),
      ...
      "name" : "Green House Cafe",
      "restaurant_id" : "40372112",
      "avg_rating" : 4.4
   }

Additional Information
----------------------

For more information on updating documents, specifying query filters, and
handling potential errors, see our guide on <TODO: change a document
fundamental page>.

For more information on update operators,
see the :manual:`MongoDB update operator reference documentation
</reference/operator/update/#update-operators>`.

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> :go-api:`UpdateOne() <mongo#Collection.UpdateOne>`

Reviewer: This link in on the staging server goes to pkg.go.dev documentation for the `github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver` package, but the canonical package is `go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver`. They're technically the same, but it could be confusing if the reader doesn't realize that.

Please update to link to the docs at https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver instead.

Author: hard coding the URL instead

Reviewer: I just noticed the code documentation URL contains the `@v1.7.0` version. Is that link going to be in the published version? If so, consider removing the `@v1.7.0` so readers will be linked to the latest version.

Author: since our Docs are versioned, we want to link specifically to the 1.7.x api docs!

=================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

> You can update a document in a collection by using the ``Collection.UpdateOne()``

Reviewer 2: suggestion: I think it's ok to shorten this to just ``UpdateOne()``.

```suggestion
You can update a document in a collection by using the ``UpdateOne()``
```

Author: accepted

method. 

> This example passes a query filter and an update parameter to the
> ``UpdateOne()`` method. The query filter specifies the document to
> match, while the update parameter specifies the change to
> make to the document. The following code example calls the
> ``UpdateOne()`` method on a document matched by its ``_id`` field from
> the ``restaurants`` collection to create a new field called
> ``avg_rating`` with a value of 4.4:

Reviewer 2: nit/suggestion: Since we're going for streamlined and simple, I'd put slightly less emphasis on the query filter. Additionally, I don't think it's necessary to say `the following code example`, just `the following example`.

```suggestion
The following example passes a query filter and an update parameter to the
``UpdateOne()`` method, matching a document in the ``restaurants`` collection
by the value of its ``_id`` field and creating a new field in that document called
``avg_rating`` with a value of *4.4*:
```

Author: accepted

.. include:: /includes/run-example-tip.rst

.. literalinclude:: /code-snippets/updateOne.go
   :start-after: begin updateone
   :end-before: end updateone
   :emphasize-lines: 6
   :language: go
   :dedent:

Click here <TODO: github link to file> to see a fully runnable example.

.. note::

   If the query filter does not match any documents, the operation will
   return a result with a ``MatchedCount`` property of 0. If the filter

>    matches multiple documents, the method will select and update one document.

Reviewer 2: question/comment: Shouldn't this be in the Fundamental page?

Author: accepted

Expected Result
---------------

> If you execute a :doc:`find
> </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve/#find>` operation querying

Reviewer 2: suggestion: Let's mark this link as todo so we don't forget later.

```suggestion
If you execute a <TODO:`find
 /fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve/#find>` operation querying
```

Author: accepted

for the same ``_id`` value used in the example, you should see that the

> matched document now includes the ``avg_rating`` field:

Reviewer 2: nit: Let's clarify this language a bit that this is the result of the operation.

> After you run the example, the document will be updated to the following values:

Or something more eloquent than that.

Author: noted, changed the phrasing

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   // result truncated
   { 
      "_id" : ObjectId("5eb3d668b31de5d588f42a7a"),
      ...
      "name" : "Green House Cafe",
      "restaurant_id" : "40372112",
      "avg_rating" : 4.4
   }

Additional Information
----------------------

For more information on updating documents, specifying query filters, and
handling potential errors, see our guide on :doc:`changing a document
</fundamentals/crud/write-operations/change-a-document/>`.

For more information on update operators,
see the :manual:`MongoDB update operator reference documentation

> </reference/operator/update/#update-operators>`.

Reviewer 2: Same as the previous suggestion, let's clearly mark links that don't work as TODO

Author: done

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- :go-api:`UpdateOne() <mongo#Collection.UpdateOne>`

> - :go-api:`UpdateResult <mongo#UpdateResult>`

Reviewer 2: Relating to my feedback on removing the note, if that goes the API link for `UpdateResult` should go as well.

Author: accepted
